If you're going to build the best
execution engine, it's going to have to
be centralized. It won't be on onchain.
I just don't think that's going to
happen. I think it sounds very good and
it sounds very promising and helps build
a lot of mania inside centralized tech,
but I just don't think it works.
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoay.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Satrage Bram,
the CEO and co-founder of Rails, a PERPS
trading platform built in the Inc.
ecosystem and a managing partner at
Round 13 Capital. In this conversation,
we discuss the early days of mobile app
development, building a wallet during
the 2017 ICO boom, how the collapse of
FTX inspired the Rails platform, why the
team is building a hybrid, centralized
and decentralized DeFi platform,
institutional interest, and so much
more. Just a reminder, nothing said on
this podcast is a solicitation to buy or
sell any tokens and that the guest or
host might hold tokens discussed in any
given episode. You can find a disclaimer
at neonnewtoday.com.
And if you enjoyed this episode, please
consider rating it and reviewing it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
sharing with friends and family. Every
rate, review, like, and comment, and
share helps us reach more people and
bring you more of your favorite guests.
With all that said, I had a really fun
time chatting with Satrage, and I hope
you enjoy the conversation, too. Hey
everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy
podcast. Today, we're joined by Satrage
Brahmbra, the co-founder and CEO of
Rails and the managing partner at Round
13 Capital. I'm really excited about
this conversation today, Satrage,
because you're one of the first project
building in the e Inc. ecosystem that
I've gotten to chat with. Um, and I'm
also just excited to talk broader market
stuff and what your perspectives are at
round 13. With all that out of the way,
how you doing today?
>> I'm good. I'm good. Uh, thanks for
having me.
>> I'm really excited. Like I was saying,
um, I think you bring a really
interesting kind of background to what
you're working on right now. You're a
developer first and then you've kind of
like migrated into CEOs of companies
that you've successfully exited from.
You're also a managing partner at a VC
firm. So, this is going to be kind of
like a a really interesting delve into a
a unique perspective into both of those
kind of realms. But before we get into
all of that, what was kind of your
genesis story with Bitcoin and Ethereum?
a lot of folks and myself included, we
first saw Bitcoin or we first saw
Ethereum and we were just like, "Oh,
that's cool." And then came back years
later. So, do you have kind of a similar
story and and like an aha moment that
happened a little bit later or or how
did you first hear about Bitcoin and and
crypto?
>> Yeah. So, um yeah, that's that's pretty
interesting. So, Bitcoin for me was like
I saw it early. I didn't do anything
about it early. Uh it was like this is
interesting. I think I I had a wallet on
my Android phone that had a lot of
Bitcoin that I completely lost cuz I
lost the phone. So, I think that's one
of my stories, but I didn't even care at
the time. So, uh I was like, "Yep,
that's cool." I think Ethereum was more
interesting for me cuz I'm a developer u
and and it's like this decentralized
computer. And that's sort of when I sort
of got deep into uh into crypto from
like a builder uh sort of standpoint.
And that was the point for me where
crypto is kind of interesting. you know,
the whole idea of having a decentralized
computer, being able to move uh value
transfer decentralized. Uh it's it's
kind of it was kind of cool and that's
sort of what got me really into crypto.
So, I think it was more Ethereum than uh
Bitcoin and and Ethereum had a large
community in Canada. It originated from
from Canada. So, it's something you
would sort of get into early if you're
into all of this stuff.
>> Yeah. Did you have kind of skepticism
though? I I don't mean to like paint you
into a corner, but like when you're
speaking with folks who were already
entrenched in the tech biz, they were
already developing in your instance in
mobile. Maybe this is kind of uh fattish
like technology and the first time you
hear about it, you're like, "Ah, that's
just buzzwords being thrown against the
wall or or did you kind of have an open
mind when you first stumbled upon
Ethereum?"
>> I I had an open mind. Like you know when
when mobile first came like mobile apps
first came they were all pretty rubbish
and they were funny like the I remember
the like you we we trade fartcoin now
but back in the day you had the fart app
right so it was it's kind of like
synonymous it's it's it's uh it's very
interesting like like I was open-minded
I just found it really slow cumbersome
but uh it's like you can see the value
prop even at that time no one sort of
can come in the way there's no middle
there's no sort of like central control
party so that part I I got pretty early
on and and that was the part that
fascinated me and and with all
technology tends to evolve and get
better over time and we are at that sort
of point today uh from where Ethereum
sort of first came came to market.
>> What mobile ecosystem were you building
in? Was it in Android or in
>> iOS? iOS I think I think when iOS first
came out. I was one of the a handful of
people who actually did iOS apps uh when
it first came out I think in in Canada.
So it was a very small community. There
was no tutorials. uh you had to learn
from the Apple docs themselves. You
program in OB objective C not swift. So
you had to really go through and and
really understand uh what you're doing
and and I think one of the things that
that creates when you build in that
ecosystem is you really begin to care
about user experience and design and
it's kind of like a core culture of of
your developer mindset when you build
stuff. So when I sort of started
building in crypto, the first thing I
noticed is it's very cumbersome and and
it's just um the user experience is
flawed big time sort of gotten used to
that over time. But that was sort of
like the way I u I started sort of
building in the crypto space. And when
we build block eq one of the reasons for
building on stellar was it was faster.
Uh the API were better um and and you
could build a better mobile experience
on that. So that's sort of like how how
I went into that into that sort of uh
process.
>> Nowadays we kind of have or you can find
a lot of issues that people have with
the Apple store and the kind of like the
fees that they take and these issues
with centralization
back in the day when you're just
starting to build these iOS mobile apps.
Was that even a concern at all?
>> No, I think I think back in the day you
were just building cuz you you it was
novel. uh it was new and it was fun like
and there was a lot of demand. So our
first company that got acquired we were
doing apps for all these different
startups and clients and and I just
wanted to keep building and building and
building. So we as more work came we we
build more and uh it was it was a lot
more fun just building and and sort of
exploring the tech as it begins to
mature and and that was I think the
really fun part of of being early in
mobile. How about being early in
Ethereum in Canada? As you mentioned,
like that's where Vitalik's from. I have
a lot of friends who were in the who
worked for Shape Shift back when it was
a centralized decentralized exchange,
centralized decks, and they're Canadian.
They have these they have these like
stories and this lore and they name drop
these big names in the blockchain and
crypto space and it's kind of um a
well-known secret or or not a well-known
secret but there was a lot of roots in
Canada for for blockchain and so what
part of Canada were you living in and
like were you going to these meetups?
Were you kind of adjacent to the folks
who were building in in the Ethereum
ecosystem in the early days? What was
just kind of like the vibe like back
then? I live in Toronto. That was that
was uh a lot of where all a lot of the
meetups happened and uh the the company
that bought our company was like a uh
like a software development studio. So
crypto and they used to do all these
community events. So part of this
community events you get to meet people
who are building in crypto all the time.
So I I'm not really a meetup guy. I just
don't go to conferences, meetups that
often. But you got you got the vi the
sort of like the vibe. people be talking
about it and that's sort of how you get
to know about it and and that's how you
sort of like start building into uh
building in the space.
>> So then what makes you want to start
building uh a hardware wallet with with
Block EQ in 2018? Why did you decide
that mobile is not the place where you
necessarily want to be building anymore?
What was the draw? What was the
attraction to to building in the crypto
space?
>> Yeah, so I I think that that's pretty
interesting. So you know you had this
massive runup in 2017 and and before
that I think what happens is anyone who
gets um baptized into crypto doesn't
matter who you are you are some sort of
trader and you and you come and you
start trading and you speculate and you
go through that 2017 moment which was
which was crazy and everyone's now
talking about it. So you know like I was
I I had learned pers on BitMX before
then. So I've always been I I I played
poker in school and I always I like I
love the idea of you know making bets
and and and doing that. So you you
generally get drawn to the ecosystem but
so there was a whole part where you're
building in the space and there's a
whole part where you actually begin to
trade in the space and that's very
interesting. That's its own sort of like
path and uh when you had this big like
mainatic moment in uh 2017 it's like
this is this is pretty cool. So everyone
gets into the space. They they get in
because they want to speculate on stuff
cuz they think it's easy money. It tends
to never be easy money cuz it is on
paper and then you completely get blown
out uh on the other side of it. But at
that point because of this this extreme
sort of like pressure on the space
you're like okay let's build something
in the space. And what you build you
let's build a wallet let's build a DEX
uh and and let's build it on mobile cuz
that's sort of our core competency. So
that's so so started working on block
EQ. The company was only 8 months old
before it was acquired. Uh, so it was a
very fast company, but we we built the
decks on Stellar. It was all native iOS,
native Android. We submitted our thing.
I had read all these creative
descriptions to submit it to the Apple
store so it could get approved. So, we
were lucky. We just got it approved
because we had that experience from the
past. But, uh, it got it started getting
used and and it was pretty cool. And I I
worked with Stellar to write some of the
APIs for iOS as well back in the day. So
it it was really really really um it was
it was actually more a fun exercise than
anything else. It's just like how you
get sort of deeply curious about the
tech and you're like let's do something
and then let's pick so I didn't want to
build on Ethereum because of how slow it
was and and I picked Stellar for that
reason. But but when I started getting
really heavy into the the trading, it
was my core thesis behind like I did the
big Salana trade which was before. So
I'm one of the few people actually got
into Salana before SPF had that famous
tweet the the you know sell me all you
want and and off. Uh so I was in
before because I thought Solan like I
thought the biggest problem at that time
was there was just not enough uh
liquidity being driven into smart
contract platforms outside Ethereum and
and they drove a lot into Solana and I
thought Solana was like on steroids
because of that. So it was became a
trade thesis for me that you want a
faster blockchain. It's it's it's going
to be more user friendly, more easy for
developers to integrate over time. So
that was the the reason why I took the
big the big trade at that moment in
time. I kind of want to push back on
that a little bit because you could have
made the same argument for Stellar or
for CDUM or for Neo back in 2017 and
2018 when these were the hyperfast
platforms that people could build on top
of. But like we just saw the market stop
caring after the the bubble po in 2017
2018. So, what gave you the confidence,
and I'm not necessarily like asking for
trading advice here, more like maybe
your perspective on the market. What
gave you the confidence that like 2021
when when Salana was like just starting
to emerge as like the third blue chip? I
I would argue what gave you the
confidence that like okay now three
years later it is time for a highly
scalable performable smart contract
platform to actually take hold and to
have feet in a pretty irrational
speculative market.
>> I think it's basically exchanged driven
liquidity and I think that was missing
completely from from uh the 2017 sort of
era. So here you had FTX fastest growing
exchange of all time at that moment in
time come in and say we're going to
build serum we're going to build all
this stuff and we're going to use it
Sena. So they had this direct linkage of
liquidity and when you have that that's
going to basically drives uh it because
liquidity
creates value in different ways outside
just trading in crypto. It drives a lot
of people into the space. You've seen
this sort of happen with pump fund
recently. So they they started with the
the speculation and now they're like a
streaming tech with tokenization built
in which is kind of cool and and I
thought that's sort of it's the exact
same effect I uh back in the day with
FDX and Sana.
>> So like um if I could also just kind of
pull in the string a little bit. Why
haven't we seen like Binance Smart Chain
really really take off?
>> It it did. It did. There was a bit of
it. So if you looked at the BNB run back
in the day, it's when they sort of took
Binance Smart Chain, it went from $30 to
like 600 bucks. that was a big big run
and sort of maintained that value ever
since. So that exchange-driven liquidity
creates big uh strong value props over
time that create that that sort of
appreciation that doesn't run away. Uh
and that that was the sort of like the
big difference between those that had it
and those that those that didn't have
it,
>> right? And I mean even it's September
2025 right now for anyone listening to
this in the future and BNB just kind of
hit all-time highs again last month. So,
it's quietly like moving on the runup.
Why? What's your perspective? Why is
like the BNB asset and the Binance
ecosystem just quietly chugging along
and and moving higher and up and to the
right?
>> That's a difficult difficult one to
answer because it's always been doing
that. Uh, if you look at it, I it just
it tends to get bought up. It it's
Binance biggest exchange. I I don't know
the smart contract activity on Binance
Smart Chain looks like. I do know that
when that what caused the big run uh the
one from 30 all the way up to three or
400 was because of the sort of like the
smart the the the smart chain sort of um
integration into Binance and then
pushing it
>> here in the west like we never really
hear about BNB or Binance chain or
anything like that. there's a total
bifurcation in information being shared
kind of between the east and the west
and Binance is like the world's uh
centralized exchange and then like and
we'll get to this in a bit but we have
like Kraken, Coinbase and Gemini in the
US basically. So, like I guess are we
entering a point now and and with pro
crypto legislation in the US, like are
we getting to a point where we're going
to be able to open the doors for
US-based exchanges to have their own
chains and their own ecosystems that can
kind of like silently grow like Binance
Smart Chain did.
>> Yeah, I think you're seeing that with
Bass now. I think Bass is obviously uh
they're I always knew when Bass launched
that they were eventually going to do a
token and I think they they talked about
having the Bass token sort of coming in
and then you see that with uh Kraken
Inc. Uh so they have their own layer 2
Coinbase. So yeah, I I think I think
that's sort of like part of your
framework as an exchange to have these
pieces together and I think one of those
is your own L2 with its token. Are we
going to be able to like is the world
going to be able to capture Binance's
market share now with the US kind of
softening up its hard policy, its hard
stances on anti-crypto legislation,
anti-crypto regulation? Are we too late
to the game in the West to kind of like
capture this market in your opinion? No,
I think I think uh there's a lot of
capture value in the US still left and I
think uh that that's what you're going
to be seeing especially with like pro
pro crypto legislation.
>> So, you're also a managing partner at
Round 13 Capital. What are you and your
team interested in? What are you what
are you eyeing for investments? What are
the types of teams, the types of people
you want to invest in? Are you early
stage? Just kind of like what's the
thesis?
>> Yeah. So when we launched the fund um in
2022 before the interest rates uh
started rising we we basically launched
the fund at the peak of the last market
and our we're like we're very generous
because crypto is sort of new developing
putting yourself in a in a box seemed
silly at that point still sort of seems
uh a little silly because it's it's it's
ever changing and it's drastically
changing. So we were like we're just
going to look at good deals. One of the
things we we are different we we had a
liquid portion of the fund. Uh that's
the portion I I I manage as as a trader
and and we've grown that that that
portion very heavily. Uh so it's it's
basically returned the entire fund. So
it was it was around 20% of the fund and
it now covers the entire fund which is
purely liquid uh stuff we bought uh in
the liquid markets. So that portion has
been mostly Bitcoin, Solana, Ethereum.
We've had a few altcoins here and there,
but that's been happening. On the
private side, we haven't actually had
any token distributions come to us yet,
but we've invested in L1's. We've
invested in gaming. We've invested Yeah.
all over the place.
>> So, I guess then you have a a deep
background in building um in mobile and
then in developing wallets and
developing on blockchain. What do you
think being a developer first and then
being a founder and then being a
managing partner, what do you think that
brings to the table? How does what are
kind of like the strengths that that
lends to you as you kind of like lead
your teams?
>> I think that really lets you sniff out
very quickly. So, back in the day, you
could you could see what was like forked
and and it was just speculative value
really helped uh sort of with the
shorts. So like I don't know if you
remember Bitcoin private back in the day
and and there's a lot of stuff. So this
is like back 2017 sort of thing. So
looking at all all the code lets you
sort of see the the crap from the good
and it helped a lot back in the day. Um
and I think that's sort of the mindset
we brought to to when we sort of make
deals. We're looking for innovative tech
that that can scale. And then the big
part is distribution, right? like like
there's this cultural distribution value
in crypto that doesn't exist in other
parts of tech that is very unique to
crypto like how the tokconomics work how
do they get people involved because that
brings people in does it doesn't does it
retain people so that's the other part
that you want to look at I wonder then
if there are any negatives because a lot
of my friends in the space who are very
developer heavy mindset one of the
things that just comes to mind
immediately is like it's very difficult
for technical developer oriented folks
to kind of like what's the best way to
put it dumb down what they're trying to
say because they speak so technically
that already you miss a large part of
the market. So I guess the other side of
the coin is where has being developer
first kind of like acted as a hindrance
or provided friction into how you
operate.
>> Yeah. So I think being developer first
and speaking all the mumbo jumbo that
comes with being like a hardcore
developer was very good uh between 2017
and 2021 everyone in the space outside
you is a speculator. So the smarter you
sound even if you have no idea what
you're talking about everyone was like
this dev's going to win and that was the
end of the story. So no one cared about
whether your product actually has users
does it does it make revenue. It was
like and that sort of tends to happen
with the early onsets of technology,
right? Uh you want to find the smartest
people who are building in the space.
It's kind of like AI back in the day as
well uh versus AI now. And and you you
just go out and and you try to invest in
those people and and you kill their
coins and and most of them are like
frauds and they have themselves have no
idea what they're building. So I I think
uh that that's the the net negative
today. I think as we're sort of
converging as crypto sort of converges
with tradi crypto is also converging on
its expectations around what is a good
what is a good product that has users
that has revenue and I think that
stuff's becoming more important so
launching a token is much easier now
than it was back in the day and now it's
like the reason meme coins have done
well is they don't even have the mamo
jam like we've we've dumbed it down to
the like the dumbest we can get which is
this is just some coin we'll call it
useless and we'll build a community
around it and we'll you know we'll send
it uh to the stratosphere and there's no
techn technicality involved it's all
culture and and accessibility and and
how you can spread that that value prop
around that the culture of the coin so I
think uh being overly technical now is a
massive negative unless you have a path
to creating an amazing company that has
a lot of distribution and I think that
now is like borderline like sort of like
matching with the with the rest of tech
You actually have to build something
that's valuable that people care about
that people will use and you will
generate revenue otherwise you won't
survive cuz your token doesn't doesn't
have that that speculative stance
anymore because there's too many of them
too much fragmentation.
>> Yeah, there's 13 million plus tokens
these days. I would actually argue that
um the past four years in the US have
been pretty detrimental towards building
in the US and projects and founders
wanting to launch here and it is because
of that anti-crypto
stance that our regulators had that
pushed out any sort of objective utility
behind tokens and made it easier for
memecoins and the speculative memecoin
mania to kind of pop off because if
you're launching a token in the US and
you don't guarantee any utility, you
don't have any team behind the product.
It's just for memes and lols only, then
you're not really running into any SEC
or CFTC regulations or having to deal
with them. So, while it's kind of like
funny and for the memes, haha, and it's
really easy to launch a memecoin, I
think that that was also a direct result
of kind of the regulation that we were
seeing over the past few years. So, does
does that has that changed? like we
still don't have a market structure
bill. We just saw a stable coin uh
stable coin legislation go through, but
that won't even take effect until 2026.
You have relocated from Canada to the US
to to build your company out here. Is
this changing on the ground as a
builder? Are you feeling the tides
change? Are you not necessarily so
worried about network tokens or project
tokens launching in the US and and being
scrutinized by our regulators? like what
are the differences in quarter 3 2025
versus this time a year and a half ago.
>> So I think the market's a lot more
mature now. So I think the benchmark for
success is also a lot higher like I I
think so the regulatory friendliness is
some way or form going to work out. I I
think that there's going to be
eventually a bill there's going to be
eventually a framework that people will
be able to follow. But what's happened
in this time is the market's also
exhausted on on speculation. So I I
think uh there'll be very little value
capture if it's purely spec speculative.
I think the way we've sort of built
rails is around the thesis that crypto
is a tech stack not a philosophy. So uh
that is the way we're thinking about the
space. So the reason we're hybrid is we
believe that if you're going to build
the best execution engine, it's going to
have to be centralized. It won't be on
onchain. So I'm not a believer that
you're going to be able to scale onchain
to that level of performance. This I
just don't think that's going to happen.
I think it sounds very good and it
sounds very promising and helps build a
lot of mania inside inside decentralized
tech, but I just don't think it works.
So similar fashion I don't think the
lack of regulation means no regulation.
I think a lot of people are confusing
that uh I as you have the convergence of
tradi into crypto I don't see a world
where you can have two different
regulatory philosophies for the way
money moves whether it's onchain or it's
offchain. I think you're going to have
regulation. You're going to have
standards around compliance. Like for
us, we are fully KYC, KYB from the get-
go. We're licensed. And I think you
can't run away from that. So, I think
these things have little moments where
because the administration is friendly.
It seems like it's the long run thing. I
don't think that's the case. I think
eventually you get back to the middle
ground where you have to be regulated,
where you can be running a
moneyaundering business on chain. That's
quote unquote DeFi like you know what I
mean? So I think that there's going to
be rules that apply to everyone and and
I think you can't run away from that and
I think that's the only way crypto sort
of meets things. So thinking of it as a
tech stack and not a philosophical sort
of technological layer is a more safer
approach. It's the approach we're taking
and I think it gives you the longevity
to sort of keep building as the two
spaces are converging. So uh even back
in the day when we were in crypto in
like 2017 2018 we we didn't want banks
and we were fighting against the banks
and we we didn't want um and here we are
every day praying from all the tad five
flows to keep the bags up. So you kind
of see in the it was a very different
philosophy in 2017 2018 it's completely
different today. So uh the the
industries are now converging. Uh I
think it's more tech than it is a
philosophy and you have to sort of build
around that. Yeah, I mean even not only
like do we want banks launching their
own stable coins and do we want banks
like buying and custodying Bitcoin on
behalf of their users, but I'm also
starting to see EVM land get really
excited about like JP Morgan L2 all
these L2s. I guess maybe this is a a
great segue into what Rails is. What is
when was Rails ideiated?
How did you build your team? And you've
already kind of like given some hints
and some clues into what Rails is, but
along with the ideation of Rails, how
you built your team, can you also give
like the highlevel 30-cond elevator
pitch for what Rails is?
>> Yeah, so Rails is a is a hybrid uh
perex. It was built from the fallout of
FTX. We had a lot of money on FTX and
the we wanted to build something that
gave you a fast high execution good user
experience around trading. And what I
noticed over time is when as
decentralized exchanges get more
decentralized they all sort of start
centralized but they get decentralized
over time they get very slow and
cumbersome to use and and that almost
guaranteed to happen to everyone that
sort of builds a deck and begins to
decentralize it because and that's why
we wanted to keep the the or so as we
keep moving our scalability sort of goes
up. It doesn't go down and on the
decentralized side if you keep
decentralizing your usability begins to
go down. it's not because everything's
much slower. Um, so we wanted to
maintain that. The other thing is we
obviously didn't want to custody user
funds. Uh, we wanted to build a a system
around it and that's where I think
blockchain sort of plays its best role.
So you you keep all the all the funds
onchain,
use cryptography to talk between a
central system and an on-chain system.
Uh, that is tamper resistance. So we use
Merkel uh Merkel trees for that. And and
and now you have like the best of both
worlds sort of converging together. Uh
we've been live for about 3 months.
We've done two billion in volume. So far
it's going pretty well. Uh so that's
sort of the the thesis behind how we
sort of built Rails. Uh our team's now
around 17 people. We've um raised around
$20 million from a good sort of investor
base. Uh very grateful and lucky to have
them. And yeah, so we're building this
like a tech company a lot more than a
crypto company. Um, I think a lot of
people would be curious. You know, you
go on crypto Twitter and everybody's
like decentralization maxis, but then
they don't really care because they're
happy to trade on Hyperlid, which he has
like a handful of validators and it's
like how decentralized is it really? So,
we have to start getting into or I in in
my team, we've always valued this kind
of thought process that decentralization
is a scale. There's it's not black or
white, it's gray. It's how far do you
want decentralization in certain things
and how far are you willing to be
centralized in other areas. So you
already kind of mentioned that you want
users to maintain custody over their
assets. So this is the decentralized
onchain perspective but where did you
kind of lean into centralization? What
are the processes of rails that are are
centralized will always be centralized?
This allows you guys to scale in a way
that meets market demand and where are
kind of like the principles where you
will always remain like in this
decentralized facet for the project.
>> So for us the order matching has to be
centralized. We we scale each of our
markets independently. We have this
infrastructure that we've built to do
that and uh sort of we maintain that in
the long run we'll only scale up we'll
never scale down. So we don't have to
think and worry about being
decentralized or eventually
decentralizing ourselves so we escape
regulatory scrutiny. Um we have KYC and
KY built in. We have a compliance
department sort of set up. So we're
operate like a centralized exchange. So
that part and I think that's sort of how
you sort of live long into the space.
What we are unique in is we have onchain
custody. So users deposit into a smart
contract, smart uh heavily audited,
highly secure. The the central system
talks to the decentralized system. It
uses cryptography to prove that user
like all the transactions are are
tamperproof and the big difference on
our side is when you uh sort of work
with the centralized exchange, you
deposit, they withdraw. Uh in your in
our case, you deposit, you withdraw. So
you're the ones who are uh as a user is
in charge of that process. So that part
I think is really cool. It's kind of
unique to be hybrid at this point in
time. So I think with a hybrid solution,
you can't be like we're not going to
we're not going to be compliant. We're
not going to have KYC because then
you're a DEX. So and we're not a DEX. So
that's sort of how we're we're thinking
about it.
>> What chain is Rails built on top of and
why did you choose that chain?
>> We have a relationship with Kraken. We
we at the end of the day we wanted to be
on an L2. The reason one of the reasons
is it's uh for readability. It's easier.
uh we post our transactions uh to Inc.
every 30 seconds that sort of is the
system responsible for all our
withdrawals and and and deposits and we
Kraken's an investor in our in our token
round and and it sort of all came
together. Uh I incis
um so yeah it it's it worked out with
us. We wanted to have USDT. Uh it's more
accessible everywhere and USDTO has a
very nice sort of setup on on on Inc. So
it all worked out.
>> So INC's pretty interoperable. I mean
any OP stack L2 is pretty interoperable.
You can just go into MetaMask and and
turn on the network. But like when
people think of American exchanges and
it's L2, Coinbase and Bass comes to
mind. But but Jesse built Kraken and and
Kraken's a phenomenal custodial
exchange. It's been around for a long
time. I mean, anybody who's using
Coinbase should also be using Kraken,
not financial advice. Um, you're kind of
like a vanguard in and like I and I
really don't want to sound negative on
on Inc. or anything, but it's like the
number two right now. You know, base
already launched and then like, oh, Inc.
is launching, too. What are the the the
benefits and what are the cons of being
kind of like an early fish in a small
pond but also having a relationship with
a highly used centralized exchange?
>> Yeah, I think I think the the big
benefits is obviously the fact that we
we work closely with the inc team. So I
love the idea of always being early
somewhere rather than being late. I
think uh building on base now means you
you are late than almost everyone else.
there's a big lineup of people who have
sort of built those relationships. I
think when you want to build a
successful product, you need to have
good relationships. You need to be
close. You need to be able to work with
the team and I think that's something we
have with with Kraken and Inc. And I
think that's really beneficial for us
and uh that's that's the only thing and
yeah it's it's it's
launched after base but like I obviously
don't see any difference because people
come in on board directly uh on when
they use um uh rails they come in
they're coming to use rails they're not
coming to use ink so and this is like
the base layer in infrastructure so
they're like okay and if they know how
to use bass they'll know how to use ink
so for us it's like it doesn't really
make a big difference. So you guys have
been live now for 3 months. What does
growth look like and you know pers
traders love per
spot traders might be a little bit
afraid of per. So are you finding that
your current user base is like already
OG DGEN kind of token traders or are you
also capturing new curious per users? uh
what what has like your user acquisition
looked like over the past three months?
>> So a lot of it is yes we we have a good
mix of you know the the dgens that come
they want to trade they want to they
want to point farm they want to be there
early um and you have a good mix of
those. We we ran a very good sort of
like testing uh time like we ran for
like a maybe like 8 months uh we call it
rails play where we sort of like had our
own liquidity and got people playing and
and we had a lot of usage there. So we
we sort of translated some of that over
here on rails, but we also have
relationships with like traditional
players and some new ones who are coming
into the space that don't trade crypto,
but they trade tradi and and uh they're
like algo firms and and all of that
stuff. And I find that being our biggest
job is onboarding that sort of new
capital into the space and and a lot of
them are like very strong on the legal.
So they they do not don't want to go
outside non-legal non-regulated places
to trade. So I think we have we have a
good sort of uh value capture on that on
that group of people.
>> Can you help me understand a little bit
better like what the value prop is for a
trady entity who's crypto curious like
um why what is it about like as a
trading vessel per offers them? I know
that you can use it for hedging in
certain instances like this, but like it
would seem to me that if if a Tradfi
entity is entering the crypto space,
maybe they would just kind of like want
to buy and huddle spot. So like what is
it that Pers and this kind of like
vehicle offers um a new entity that's
just starting to explore crypto?
>> Yeah. Uh that's a great question. So
there's very few that actually care
about holding. uh a lot of them care
about making profit and and and they
make them in both sides. So one of the
beauties about crypto is it's an
extremely volatile market both sides. So
it gives you amazing opportunities on
the long and as equal opportunities on
the short if you know how to play that
and gives you the possibility to play
this spread trade. So one of the things
I like is you can play Bitcoin dominance
very easily by being long Bitcoin and
short like a bunch of alts. You you know
you can get a beta on Bitcoin going down
by shorting alts with with a lot more
size. So the ability to obviously have
leverage, be able to trade both sides of
the market, be able to sort of hedge
your positions, being able to spread
trade is the big thing you can do with
per as you can do with spot. And I think
that's just a lot more that's why it's
it's it's very much for traders.
>> So then are they are you are these
traders, these trady entities, these
kind of like cryptocurists, are they at
all concerned about the tech? because
like yeah it maybe they just want to
make money but like when when you're
digging into Rails you start seeing that
there's also like ZK tech that's
integrated. So is this something that
they're interested in? Do you guys have
to sell like the the value prop that ZK
brings to the ecosystem or could you
share a little bit more?
>> Yeah. So at the end of the day, so this
is sort of the order of thinking in
which they enter. So first is we're new
liquidity is building. they kind of
already know that. Well, are you
regulated? That's always the first
question. What's your compliance and
regulation sort of look like? Are you uh
do you do KYC, KYB? So, if and and we've
had a couple of very high-profile market
makers that will not go out on
unregulated platforms. So, they just
will not just be from the 2020. So, they
have the same thesis around the fact
that deregulation does not mean no
regulation. There's going to be
requirements to be regulated to sort of
do compliance. And I think that's sort
of what we're we're beginning to see. So
then they're like, well, this is a good
place for us to come and trade and and
build value and and gain points and earn
tokens. So it's it lets them enter the
game in a in an interesting way where
they can do it in a way that sort of
works with their with their compliance
department.
>> And so how how have you guys integrated
ZK? What what are you using it for? And
the ecosystem I spend a lot of time in.
uh a lot of like the the zkish kind of
concerns we have right now are against
me. So for instance the Neo X EVM side
chain just integrated antiMev resistance
or ME resistance antME protocols. So
like how are you guys leveraging ZK and
what do your clients care about? Do they
care about privacy? Do they care about
speed? Um and how are your ZK solutions
kind of catering to what they care
about? So our core infrastructure is is
built around merges first because that's
how you you actually go and create this
tamper proof uh uh mirror of your
transactions sort of like onchain. So
that where we use ZK is really about
privacy and proofability. So we want to
prove that this is the user that does
that. So it's only around the proof
layer that we actually care about ZK.
It's around on the Merkel tree layer
that we we we create about the tamper
resistance so we don't confuse the two
things together. So that's sort of how
we've we've we've built it.
>> Yeah. And being early builders in the
Inc. ecosystem, are the blocks or are
what you're building are these like
composable tools that other projects can
also use? Is this open source
information? Are you kind of like
putting out into the Inc. ecosystem
opportunities for other builders to take
what you've worked on and and add to
their projects or iterate on top of it.
>> So, we haven't done that yet because
we've spent so much time building. It's
definitely something that's on our road
map, but you know, like like with all
road maps, we're getting we get busier
and busier and and we are adding as many
products uh like uh value products that
that sort of like um that that people
want. So we have for example we have
prop coming soon that that's going to be
very interesting because it's it's
really nice trading feature. It's
obviously educational. It's for people
that don't have as much capital. They
want to they want to take a shot. They
they get to learn how to trade and if
they win we give them a funded account
on Rails itself. So that's sort of
coming in in in play. We have uh
integrations that are a bit outside inc
as well like with with different chains.
uh we're talking to large uh trady
players that that want to integrate per
into their their apps. They have
millions of users uh and and how does
that work with us and and we're new
we're regulated. So these are different
types of opportunities that we're that
we're working on and we we want to add
this but like I said we we always come
from the point that we're we're a tech
startup uh we're not in that formation a
crypto startup.
>> Right. Right. Right. So, if you go to
the Rails Twitter page, you kind of see
like this weekly update for trading
competition that's going on. Um, and you
also mentioned that you had your own
like pre-launch trading uh competition
or maybe beta testing group, whatever
you want to call it. How how how have
you noticed the kind of community
response that were in the alpha beta
testing pools? And now that you're into
week 11, I think it is, of the trading
competition, how has the transition been
from uh test net tokens, test net
activity to now you're almost into three
whole months of of trading competitions?
What are some of like the lessons you've
gleaned, some insights you've you've
taken? Uh what are the users who
participate week in and week out saying?
>> Yeah, so I think so far the the response
has been very has been very good. like
we we've we've we've been pretty happy
with it so far. One of the things, you
know, we did that was we did
intentionally is we didn't go out and
start building this big Twitter
followings, you know, buy the followers
like this. This is whole sort of system
that that people run to build their
followings and stuff. We just wanted to
build something valuable like a like a
normal tech tech company would and get
people who actually want to trade and
use the system and and we've been able
to translate that and that's why our
volumes has been consistently rising
because people are using it. They're
liking it and we we get a lot of
feedback like on our Discord channel is
pretty active and we get a lot of
feedback. We act on that feedback. Uh we
add features in. We have had situations
where you know like
there's chain congestion so we've had to
deal with that. That's very new from
when we were doing our our test net
stuff and we have to get all the blocks
rolling which is another proof case uh
that our onchain custody works very well
because when the when there's no blocks
thing nothing uh nothing works at the
time. So we've had to educate users that
uh it has nothing to do with the
centralized mechanism. You your funds
are onchain. They're safe. It's just
that there's block congestion. So you
end up with a with those with those
systems as well. And it's been good
learning. We're you know we're early. We
want to build our liquidity. So having
market makers on board. We do not market
make at all on the system. Uh that's one
of the other things that Dexes tend to
do. They have their vaults where they
market make with those and and we don't
we we can be that. It's part of like
when we got our SEMA license, it's it's
a big no no. Uh so this is this is the
type of thing. So building organic
liquidity is much harder going through
those mechanisms. Uh obviously we've
been a little bit illquid in the
beginning. Liquidity slowly begin to
build up. So we're beginning to notice.
Uh one of the interesting things is when
the competition first started you had
like your top by P&L was maybe a couple
hundred a week was the the the person
number one and now it's consistently
like 20k 30k. there's that big run of
people actually making money on the
platform that we've seen like your
winners are getting bigger, they're
getting more consistent. So, that's kind
of nice to see.
>> Yeah. So, forgive my ignorance if if I'm
not understanding necessarily uh the
underpinnings of how Per operates, but
is the order book are you guys managing
an order book? What processes are on
chain? Um, if I'm correct in my
assumptions, per trading isn't
necessarily like ensuring that there's
the underlying spot asset. It's more of
like a futuresque
type price. So, are you guys having to
maintain an maintain an onchain order
book or like what are the the trading
processes on chain that that you guys
have to watch out for and and make sure
that there isn't that much congestion?
So for us uh our the only thing onchain
is people's money. So the only thing
that is is their deposits and
withdrawals are all on chain. So it's
it's they're the ones responsible for
those. What we do is we roll up our all
our transactions every 30 seconds uh and
post them on chain and and that's that's
uh and then we prove the user is the
user. So they're responsible for taking
their funds from the smart contract.
That's that's sort of how it works.
Everything else is centralized. the
matching uh the index price that
maintains uh that the order book sort of
tack on. We don't market mix. We have
external market makers uh a few of them
on the system already. So they're market
making all the time. That's sort of how
it's segregated. So the onchain stuff is
only for people's for user funds.
>> The market makers were these
relationships that were kind of built
through the Kraken ecosystem or did you
have to go out and kind of like build
your own relationships yourself?
>> Oh, we build this relationship
ourselves. So part of me being a trader
in the space and and sort of running the
large the the largest liquid fund in
Canada is I I tend to work with these
people on the OTC side. So those
relationships something we've sort of
gotten and had them convert to rails.
>> Cool. So what's the what's the community
input process like for the tokens? If
you go to the platform you see like blue
chip OGs like Bitcoin, ETH, Soul, XRP,
but then you also have like Hype,
Fartcoin, and Pump. So how do you guys
choose which tokens to list? Is it based
off of community sentiment? Is it just
kind of like your own trader intuition?
>> Yeah. So, I think the the the the first
four were like this this is the big four
in volume on on the institutional side.
So, uh would list those and the rest
were like we just did votes. We're like
what do you what do you guys want to
trade in and and then this is where we
got like hype but hype is uh it's it's a
revenue based token uh with with a lot
of usage. So, it's a I think it's it's
it's one of the better products in the
space. it it may be extractive uh in its
initial thing but I think now with the
streaming with with the revenue
generation with the buybacks it's a
pretty interesting mechanism and that's
that's also reflected in its price right
now and and the way it's performing so
Hyperlid as well big demand to trade
that um and and same with Farcoin those
are all like demand based tokens
>> we actually had a on the pod uh a
product that kind of like watches market
sentiment for new new coins and stuff
like that. And the day I interviewed
them was the day after Farttcoin
launched and they were like, "Yeah, the
community is really talking about this.
It's it's picking up uh Twitter
sentiment." And I thought, "There's no
way that this is going to take off." And
here we are like seven months later and
still talking about Farcoin. Absolutely
hilarious.
>> Crazy. Crazy. But I I don't think that's
going to be the case forever. So, uh
it's it's just a moment in time sort of
thing,
>> right? Okay. um kind of like zooming out
and and wrapping up. Um you mentioned
prop earlier. What are some other things
on your road map that you're excited to
uh roll out to the community or that
your team is particularly excited in
building?
>> So outside prop we're very excited
about. It's coming out um like a month
uh I think. Uh so it's it's going to be
launching soon. I think the other one is
our crossplatform sort of move. So we're
we're we're going to be uh integrating
other chains not just L2s but other
chains and I think the other one is
going to be the institutional vaults
that we're working on. So because we
can't market make with those vaults how
do we create this mechanism for uh
professional marketmaking firms to come
in use those funds uh trade on the
system provide a yield back to vault
users. So we're we're now in those sort
of me those those sort of mechanisms
sort of coming into play at real.
>> What's like the the criteria or the
thought process for which chains to add
support for? I mean pretty obvious today
that it's like Ethereum and Salana are
like the two killer chains you have to
support because that's where a lot of
token trading is happening. Probably
other EVMs like like Bass. Um but like
what's the thought process like for for
you and your team internally when you're
exploring which chains to add support
for? I think one of the things that
there's a lot of promotional there's a
lot of capital in chains that people
know that don't that typically they
don't use as much where they're looking
to build on their use cases and and we
offer sort of like the perfect venue for
them to come and and integrate into that
they want to be like how do we
participate in this per thing how do we
build our user base so I think uh
there's a lot of opportunity around
outside the Ethereum and Solana where
everyone is to where everyone can go or
can sort of like you can use that sort
of as a growth engine for for rail. So
that's sort of something we're
exploring.
>> Cool. I do want to kind of get your
perspective as as you've been around the
Ethereum ecosystem for for quite some
time now. You you probably rubbed elbows
with some of the the OG builders in the
space. Um, Ethereum this year in 2025
has had a light and day kind of
narrative. At at the beginning of the
year, it was a dead chain that the ETH
val the ETH token couldn't acrue any
value. All the L2s were hyper abstract
extractive. They were vampire attacks on
on the L1 network um for activity on the
L1 asset for value accumulation. And
then over the past three months, it's
witnessed this kind of like resurgence
of love largely driven by this kind of
institutional level plays that like Tom
Lee has made for for Eat the Asset. All
this to say is it's had a dichotomy of a
year. It's had it's had a terrible name.
Uh it's had a terrible smear against its
name and then this phenomenal
resurgence. So what's your outlook on
Ethereum as L1 as an L1 as a technology
and also Ethereum as an asset?
>> I think that's yeah that's the way I've
been thinking about it. So even when it
came to us actually doing the trade on
Ethereum. So as you know in crypto uh
price is the is the first part be it's
like price narrative and fundamental. I
think that's sort of like the how crypto
tends to work. So, as long as the price
is performing well, the asset is great
and the fundamentals are strong. When
the opposite happens, don't want to own
it. It's going to zero, right? So, I
think all you've had I don't think
anything has changed technically on
Ethereum. It's still the same thing as
it was at the beginning of the year. I I
just don't see anything there. What
you've had is a couple of big buyers
come in and say, "We're going to make
this asset great again, and we're going
to pump a bunch of money and buy it up."
And that's the only difference between
now and then. And obviously, that
creates nice momentum trade. So,
everyone comes in, everyone's making
money, they're feeling great about it.
As soon as Ethereum's eventually done
and it sells off, it gets exactly back
to where it was in the beginning of the
year. So, I think that's the only thing
uh I don't I don't and and you know
what, that's it's really just a momentum
trade uh more than anything else. I
don't think fundamentally it's gotten
any better. I think it's all about where
the capital is, right? So, as long as
the capital's with Ethereum, it's a
great asset. When the capital leaves,
it's no longer a great asset. So, I I
think this is how it's as simple and
clean. There's you can make it very
complicated by adding all this like new
things that it's going to do this, it's
going to scale, but uh I don't think any
of that changes. It's it's just it's
purely a momentum trade right now and
it's driven uh only by the digital asset
treasuries.
>> Okay. So let's take DATs out of the
question and let's look at from a
technical perspective the development
roadmap for Ethereum. Is this uh an
underlying architecture an underlying
infrastructure that we will be using as
crypto becomes more and more mainstream
over the next 5 to 10 years?
>> I don't think so.
What's uh without putting a name into
into your mouth or making you say any
name in particular is the kind of like
mainstream blockchain that all these
banks all these tradi the world has
onboarded onto is it already live or
being built today or have we still not
seen it see the light of day
>> what is paradigm and stripe building you
know that that sort of answers your
question right there so I think that
it's a strong momentum speculatory move
right now I think it it's all going to
course correct over the next year. Um at
some point we are definitely in the last
stages of this bull market. We're not in
the early stages. Uh uh I I feel maybe
have one or two more leg up movements
before it all sort of unwinds. So I'm
not very bullish going into 2026. I
think I think we we tend to revert back.
uh and I think that if you have like
Stripe and Paradigm building a brand new
blockchain for payments for movement of
money uh it is very bearish for Ethereum
uh in the long run. So, I think that the
answer is, is it a public blockchain?
Maybe, maybe, maybe a faster one, maybe
Solana, maybe not. Is it going to be an
L2? Maybe, maybe not. Or is it going to
be something someone else hasn't built
that's being built right now? Probably.
I'm willing to put my flag into into the
ground uh today on September 16th and
say that I think the the final piece of
speculative action that that moves this
market forward that will inevitably mark
the top of this cycle is the Bitcoin
strategic reserve being put to vote in
US Congress and Congress not moving on
that at all. And when that fails, I
think that's the the pin that goes into
the balloon that deflates us and sends
us into the next kind of deflationary or
uh market valuation downturn cycle.
Crypto is a a super secular asset class
as all asset classes are. So I'm willing
to go on and and say that I I I think I
think you're right. What's the timing on
that? Like so I think this there's a
couple of things happening. Also,
there's the ETFs coming in November. I I
if anything I would go and say that you
probably peak out be before November by
November before December something like
that. I I I think yes we we're
definitely at the late so we all agree
we're on like the late stages of this of
this cycle. So because we've already had
I think the bottom was in 2022 when
Bitcoin bottoms that was since then
we've basically been going up. So and
we've been going up in negative
territory when interest rates have been
high and stuff. So when everything we
get into the cut cycle, I don't think
that means uh I think it sets up for a
big correction before that sort of
begins to get priced in. The other thing
that I'm looking at on the trading
perspective is who wins New York. So if
Zoran wins New York, are we actually
signaling a momentum shift from
capitalism to socialism in the west?
Like is that sort of uh scaling up? that
means your regulatory hammers are going
to come in really heavily on crypto
because you just almost that maybe
that's the tide shift that's going to be
happening. So be watching for that. Um
but yes, I think I agree with you. I
think at some point we're we're
definitely uh in our fi in our final
beat here.
>> Yeah, I mean and just politics in
general is like pendulum. You swing to
the left, you swing to the right. We had
we saw in the west particularly in North
America the big swing to the right last
year and eventually things just kind of
swing back to the left. We can't control
markets. We can't control politics. So I
guess maybe the the last piece of of
good advice I can solicit from you is if
we do kind of start going into the
downturn for 2026 2027 are you excited
to build in a bare market?
>> Yeah I think I think and that's why you
know I I go back to the fact that for us
crypto is a tech stack. It's under
philosophy. So, uh we keep building. Uh
uh bare markets are great for traders as
well. They're not good for holders, but
they're great for traders. And you have
a lot of uh people getting ready to
learning how to short for the first time
coming and getting blown up shorting
bare markets. It's you see it's not a
easy up and down. It's like and then
it's like that. So, I I've seen a lot of
people get blown out completely uh
shorting bare markets, which is kind of
funny because that's what you're
supposed to do. But but you get this
crazy uh you get uh bare markets have
really brutal uh bull swings in them. So
it's it's very interesting but at the
end this is all volatility in one way or
the other. So, uh, you you get people
excited to to sort of trade those
conditions and I think what what doesn't
change across the board is the things
are just going to get more volatile over
time and and and I think that's that
just creates more trading opportunities
and per perspect
take the ride.
>> That's right. That's right.
>> Awesome satage. Well, this has been a
fantastic conversation. If anybody's
interested in you or in using Rails,
what's the best way they can reach out
to you or get in contact with the
project?
>> Yeah. So, we are Rails XYZ on on X and
I'm sat Bam on X. So, you can just reach
reach out to me there.
>> Awesome. Well, thank you so much for
your time today. This was a pleasure.
>> Thank you.
>> Cheers. Thank you for tuning in to the
Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the
loop with all of our latest episodes,
head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com.
And don't forget to subscribe to our
YouTube channel for all of our video
content. If you enjoyed today's
discussion, please consider showing your
support by liking, commenting, and
reviewing this episode on your favorite
podcasting platform. Your feedback helps
us reach more listeners and bring even
better content your way. We'd also love
to hear from you. So, please drop a
comment on Spotify or YouTube to share
what topics you'd like us to cover or
who you'd like to see as our next guest.
And if someone you know might make a
great guest, then please reach out.
We're always on the hunt for fresh
voices and new perspectives. And for our
NEO token holders out there, please
consider voting for NEON News Today as
your council representative. We've
proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem
since 2017 and we'll continue to do so
by putting portions of our council
rewards directly back into ecosystem
growth initiatives. So once again, thank
you so much for tuning in to the Smart
Economy podcast and we look forward to
catching you next time.